# Energy consumption of videoconferencing apps
In this project we, the Super Green Lab team, want to do research on the energy consumption of the two popular Android videoconferencing apps Zoom and Google Meet. This repository is devided into two main parts: the actual experiment (`android-runner`) and the analysis of the measured data (`data-analysis`).

## android-runner
**TODO**

Python framework for automatically executing measurement-based experiments on native and web apps running on Android devices

## Data analysis
The data analysis can again be split up into two parts: the preprocessing and the actual analysis.

### Preprocessing
In order to be able to evaluate the measured data, it is reasonable to extract the relevant information that Batterystats has written into multiple files spread over multiple folders. We used a Python script to do this. Before running, a few parameters have to be adapted in this script:
- `phone`: The ID of the used phone as specified in Monkeyrunner (e.g. `motog5`)
- `raw_data_path`: The path to the folder containing the raw data generated by the experiment.

There are two preprocessing scripts available: one for the preliminary experiment (`preprocessing-pre.py`) and one for the main experiment (`preprocessing-main.py`). They slightly differ, since the folder structure and the interesting attributes also differ. Both are generating a CSV file called `results-pre.csv` or `results-main.csv` respectively in the raw data’s parent folder. This CSV file contains the following attributes:
| Attribute | Description | Values |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----|
| `app` | The examined videoconferencing app |`meet` or `zoom` |
| `number_of_participants` (only in main)|Number of participants in the video conference|`2` or `5`|
| `camera` (only in main)|Activation state of the camera|`off` or `on`|
| `microphone` (only in main)|Activation state of the microphone|`off` or `on`|
| `duration_in_minutes`| Duration of the video conference in minutes|Numerical value|
| `joules`|Consumed energy in Joules|Numerical value|

### Acutal analysis
To analyse and visualize the preprocessed data, we used R. With R it is very simple to read CSV files and perform analyses on the read data. For creating plots, we used ggplot2.
